.TH CLIP_STORE 1 "May 2026" "ws_pipeline_dispatcher v2.1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
clip_store \- plain-text clip index with TTL and garbage collection
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B clip_store
.B \-\-db
.I path
.RB [ \-\-ttl
.IR seconds ]
.br
.B clip_store
.B \-\-db
.I path
.B \-\-get
.I key
.br
.B clip_store
.B \-\-db
.I path
.B \-\-gc
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBclip_store\fR is a file-backed key-value index for embedded data pipelines.
In append mode it reads JSON Lines from stdin and appends each record to a
plain-text database file.
.PP
The database format is tab-delimited:
.PP
.RS
.nf
<key>\\t<value>\\t<expire_at>\\n
.fi
.RE
.PP
Where \fIkey\fR is \fIsession_id\fB:\fIts\fR, \fIvalue\fR is the clip path
extracted from the input JSON, and \fIexpire_at\fR is a Unix timestamp
(0 = never expires).
.PP
File locking (\fBflock\fR(2)) is held on all write paths, allowing multiple
concurrent writers without corruption.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-d ", " \-\-db " path"
Path to the database file.
Required for all operations.
The file is created if it does not exist.
.TP
.BI \-t ", " \-\-ttl " seconds"
Time-To-Live for appended records.
Records whose \fIexpire_at\fR timestamp has passed are treated as expired and
excluded from queries and garbage collection output.
Default: \fB3600\fR.
Use \fB0\fR to store records that never expire.
.TP
.BI \-\-get " key"
Retrieve the latest live (non-expired) value for \fIkey\fR and print it to
stdout.
Exits with status 1 if the key is not found or all matching records are
expired.
.TP
.B \-\-gc
Run garbage collection: rewrite the database to a temporary file keeping only
the latest non-expired record per key, then atomically replace the original
via rename(2).
Exits after GC completes.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print a usage summary to stdout and exit with status 0.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Operation completed successfully.
.TP
.B 1
An error occurred: missing \fB\-\-db\fR argument, I/O error, or key not found
(for \fB\-\-get\fR).
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Append clip records from stdin with a one-hour TTL:
.PP
.RS
.nf
echo '{"session_id":"s1","ts":1747065600,"path":"/clips/s1_0.bin"}' | \e
  clip_store --db /var/db/clips.db --ttl 3600
.fi
.RE
.PP
Store records that never expire:
.PP
.RS
.nf
cat clips.jsonl | clip_store --db /var/db/clips.db --ttl 0
.fi
.RE
.PP
Retrieve a specific clip by key:
.PP
.RS
.nf
clip_store --db /var/db/clips.db --get s1:1747065600
.fi
.RE
.PP
Remove expired entries and deduplicate the database:
.PP
.RS
.nf
clip_store --db /var/db/clips.db --gc
.fi
.RE
.PP
Final stage of the full pipeline:
.PP
.RS
.nf
stream_merge sess01 /tmp/stream \e
  | log_parse --filter type=clip \e
  | clip_store --db /var/db/clips.db --ttl 3600
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR stream_merge (1),
.BR log_parse (1),
.BR pipeline_dispatcher (1),
.BR flock (2),
.BR rename (2)
