.TH LOG_PARSE 1 "May 2026" "ws_pipeline_dispatcher v2.1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
log_parse \- lightweight structured record processor for UNIX pipelines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B log_parse
.RB [ \-r
.IR pattern ]
.RB [ \-e
.IR fields ]
.RB [ \-\-format
.IR fmt ]
.br
.B log_parse
.RB [ \-f
.IR key=value ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBlog_parse\fR reads lines from stdin and writes structured records to stdout.
It operates in one of two modes:
.PP
.B Parse mode
.RS
Applies a POSIX extended regular expression (\fB\-\-regex\fR) to each input
line, maps capture groups to named fields (\fB\-\-fields\fR), and emits the
result as JSON Lines or CSV (\fB\-\-format\fR).
.RE
.PP
.B Filter mode
.RS
Reads JSON Lines from stdin and emits only those records where a specified
flat field matches a given value (\fB\-\-filter\fR).
Supports string, number, and boolean field comparisons.
.RE
.PP
All diagnostic output is written to stderr; stdout carries data only.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-r ", " \-\-regex " pattern"
Apply a POSIX extended regular expression to each input line.
Parenthesized capture groups are mapped in order to the field names given by
\fB\-\-fields\fR.
Cannot be combined with \fB\-\-filter\fR.
.TP
.BI \-e ", " \-\-fields " f1,f2,..."
Comma-separated list of field names for the capture groups in \fB\-\-regex\fR.
The number of names must match the number of capture groups.
Required when \fB\-\-regex\fR is used.
.TP
.BI \-f ", " \-\-filter " key=value"
Read JSON Lines from stdin and emit only records where the flat field
\fIkey\fR equals \fIvalue\fR.
Cannot be combined with \fB\-\-regex\fR.
.TP
.BI \-\-format " fmt"
Set output format for parse mode.
Accepted values: \fBjson\fR (default), \fBcsv\fR.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print a usage summary to stdout and exit with status 0.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
All input processed successfully.
.TP
.B 1
Invalid arguments or I/O error.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Extract timestamp, level, and message from syslog-style lines:
.PP
.RS
.nf
echo "2026-05-23 INFO started" | \e
  log_parse --regex '^([0-9-]+ [0-9:]+) ([A-Z]+) (.+)$' \e
            --fields ts,level,msg
.fi
.RE
.PP
Same extraction with CSV output:
.PP
.RS
.nf
echo "2026-05-23 INFO started" | \e
  log_parse --regex '^([0-9-]+ [0-9:]+) ([A-Z]+) (.+)$' \e
            --fields ts,level,msg --format csv
.fi
.RE
.PP
Keep only clip records from a stream of JSON Lines:
.PP
.RS
.nf
cat events.jsonl | log_parse --filter type=clip
.fi
.RE
.PP
Middle stage of the full pipeline:
.PP
.RS
.nf
stream_merge sess01 /tmp/stream \e
  | log_parse --filter type=clip \e
  | clip_store --db /var/db/clips.db
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR stream_merge (1),
.BR clip_store (1),
.BR grep (1),
.BR awk (1),
.BR regex (7)
