.TH STREAM_MERGE 1 "May 2026" "ws_pipeline_dispatcher v2.1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
stream_merge \- synchronize a growing binary stream with its metadata sidecar and emit clip JSON Lines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B stream_merge
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIsession_id\fR \fIsrc_dir\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBstream_merge\fR reads a session's metadata sidecar file
(\fIsession_id\fB.meta.jsonl\fR) incrementally and groups metadata records
into time-bounded clips.
It emits one JSON Line per clip to stdout.
.PP
The binary data file (\fIsession_id\fB.bin\fR) is opened to verify existence;
byte-level extraction is not performed in v2.1.
Processing ends when a \fB.pipeline_end\fR sentinel file appears in
\fIsrc_dir\fR, after which any remaining metadata is drained and the final
clip is flushed.
.PP
All diagnostic output is written to stderr; stdout carries data only.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-\-clip\-secs " n"
Target clip duration in seconds.
A new clip boundary is recorded when the accumulated \fIts_ms\fR span of
metadata records reaches this threshold.
Default: \fB5.0\fR.
.TP
.BI \-\-idle\-secs " n"
Idle timeout in seconds.
If no new metadata records arrive within this period, the current partial
clip is emitted immediately.
Default: \fB2.0\fR.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print a usage summary to stdout and exit with status 0.
.SH INPUT FORMAT
Each record in \fIsession_id\fB.meta.jsonl\fR must have the form:
.PP
.RS
.nf
{"kind":"data","sequence":<n>,"offset":<n>,"length":<n>,"ts_ms":<ms>}
.fi
.RE
.PP
Records using the legacy \fBseq\fR field instead of \fBsequence\fR are
considered malformed and skipped.
A continuity break (non-consecutive \fIsequence\fR or non-contiguous
\fIoffset\fR) triggers an immediate partial-clip emission.
.SH OUTPUT FORMAT
Each emitted clip is a single JSON Line:
.PP
.RS
.nf
{"type":"clip","session_id":"<id>","ts":<unix_ts>,
 "path":"<path>","offset":<n>,"length":<n>,"complete":<bool>}
.fi
.RE
.PP
\fBcomplete\fR is \fBtrue\fR for a full \fB\-\-clip\-secs\fR window,
\fBfalse\fR for a partial clip emitted due to a continuity break or idle
timeout.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
All records processed and final clip flushed successfully.
.TP
.B 1
An error occurred: missing required arguments, file not found, path
construction failure, or I/O error.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Emit clips from session \fIsess01\fR stored under \fI/tmp/stream\fR using
default 5-second windows:
.PP
.RS
.nf
stream_merge sess01 /tmp/stream
.fi
.RE
.PP
Use 10-second clip windows and a 5-second idle timeout:
.PP
.RS
.nf
stream_merge --clip-secs 10 --idle-secs 5 sess01 /tmp/stream
.fi
.RE
.PP
Pipe directly into \fBlog_parse\fR(1) to filter clip records:
.PP
.RS
.nf
stream_merge sess01 /tmp/stream | log_parse --filter type=clip
.fi
.RE
.PP
Full three-stage pipeline:
.PP
.RS
.nf
stream_merge sess01 /tmp/stream \e
  | log_parse --filter type=clip \e
  | clip_store --db /var/db/clips.db --ttl 3600
.fi
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR log_parse (1),
.BR clip_store (1),
.BR pipeline_dispatcher (1),
.BR inotifywait (1)
